Large language models are characterized by their immense
size. By size, we're not talking about
physical space. The size of a large language model is
measured by the number of parameters it has. But what does
having a large number of parameters mean? Well, imagine you're teaching a
robot how to play a really complicated game. To do
that, you need to give it lots of instructions and rules on how to play
the game. Each of these rules is like a piece of information
that the robot needs to remember. Now think of the parameters
in a large language model like those instructions and rules.
There are tiny bits of information, kinda like building blocks, that
help the model understand and generate language. But
here's the thing, large language models have a huge number of these
tiny building blocks, like millions or even billions of
them. The more parameters a model has,
the better it can understand and work with language. It's like
having a bigger and more powerful brain for language
tasks. So when we say a model has lots of parameters, we mean it
has a massive collection of these little pieces of information that make
it smart when it comes to understanding and using language.
The fur most famous large language model contains millions to billions of
parameters. For instance, BERT, a large language model developed by
Google has 345,000,000 parameters
and GPT 4 gets even bigger
at 1.7 trillion parameters.
Large language models are also trained on huge amounts of text
data. The more text the machine is given to read
arguably the more successful it's going to be at learning
the complexities of language so LLMs are trained
on massive amounts of text data from the internet it's
like they read the entire internet itself but just really
really fast this text data includes things like books
so large language models will read tons of books on all sorts of
topics from adventure stories to science textbooks.
They also go through websites like news articles, blogs, and even
social media posts to see how people talk online.
They study Wikipedia articles to learn about facts, history, and
knowledge, and they also look at how people chat with each
other online to understand how language is useful in
everyday communication. There's also a few other bits
that they'll go through like like recipes and movie reviews
and scientific papers. By taking in
all this text data, large language models learn the patterns, grammar,
and vocabulary of human language. It's like how we learn to
speak by listening to others and reading books but large language
models do it on a much larger scale and much much
faster.